docs/smush.rst, before:

``smushplot``
=============

Colors
------

Specifying colors for plotting can be kind of confusing, so here is a table of all the possible inputs and outputs with examples.

+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inputs                                                   | Output                                                                                                                                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| #   | ``color`` | ``palette`` | ``hue``  | ``hue_order`` | # colors      | Group order | Color(s) of samples plotted                                                                                                                         |
+=====+===========+=============+==========+===============+===============+=============+=====================================================================================================================================================+
| 1.  | |None|    | |None|      | |None|   | |None|        | |one|         |             | All samples as one color, |autoassigned|                                                                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2.  | |None|    | |None|      | |None|   | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 3.  | |None|    | |None|      | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Color by group mapping specified in ``hue`` with |autoassigned| colors                                                                              |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.  | |None|    | |None|      | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Color by group mapping specified in ``hue`` with |autoassigned| colors, in order specified by ``hue_order``                                         |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 5.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |None|   | |None|        | |n_index|     | |rows|      | Every sample a different color, auto-assigned from ``palette`` by the row order of the input data                                                   |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 6.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |None|   | |hue_order|   | |n_index|     | |order|     | If ``len(hue_order)==data.shape[0]``, then every sample a different color, in order specified by ``hue_order``. Otherwise raises ``ValueError``     |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 7.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Group by samples with ``hue`` and color with this ``palette``                                                                                       |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 8.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Group by samples with ``hue`` with this ``palette``, in order specified by ``hue_order``                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 9.  | |color|   | |None|      | |None|   | |None|        | |one|         |             | All samples as one color from ``color``                                                                                                             |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 10. | |color|   | |None|      | |None|   | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 11. | |color|   | |None|      | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Plot groups of samples defined by ``hue`` with colors created a ``sns.light_palette()`` derived from ``color``                                      |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 12. | |color|   | |None|      | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Plot groups of samples defined by ``hue`` with colors created a ``sns.light_palette()`` derived from ``color``, in order specified by ``hue_order`` |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 13. | |color|   | |palette|   | |None|   | |None|        |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 14. | |color|   | |palette|   | |None|   | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 15. | |color|   | |palette|   | |hue|    | |None|        |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 16. | |color|   | |palette|   | |hue|    | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Note:

|autoassigned| colors come either from ``ax.color_cycle()`` or "husl" palette if not enough colors.

.. Argument replacements
.. |None| replace:: ``None``
.. |color| replace:: Valid `matplotlib color`_ (e.g. ``"DarkTeal"`` or ``"#4B0082"``)
.. |palette| replace:: Valid matplotlib_ (e.g. ``"PRGn"``) or seaborn_ (e.g. ``"husl"``) palette name or list of colors
.. |hue| replace:: Sample id (row name) to group mapping object (``pandas.Series`` or ``dict``)
.. |hue_order| replace:: ``list`` object

.. Output replacements
.. |ValueError| replace:: Cannot interpret, raises ``ValueError``
.. |autoassigned| replace:: **auto-assigned**

.. Number of colors replacements
.. |n_hue| replace:: Number of groups in `hue`
.. |n_hue_order| replace:: Number of groups in `hue_order`
.. |n_index| replace:: Number of samples (rows)
.. |one| replace:: One (1)

.. Group ordering replacements
.. |alpha| replace:: Alphanumeric
.. |order| replace:: In order defined by ``hue_order``
.. |rows| replace:: In original row order of the data

.. External Links
.. _matplotlib: http://matplotlib.org/examples/color/colormaps_reference.html
.. _seaborn: https://stanford.edu/~mwaskom/software/seaborn/tutorial/color_palettes.html
.. _matplotlib color: http://matplotlib.org/examples/color/named_colors.html

Commit message:

hue_order with {palette,hue}=None is valid if it's the same length as the data rows

docs/smush.rst, after:

``smushplot``
=============

Colors
------

Specifying colors for plotting can be kind of confusing, so here is a table of all the possible inputs and outputs with examples.

+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inputs                                                   | Output                                                                                                                                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| #   | ``color`` | ``palette`` | ``hue``  | ``hue_order`` | # colors      | Group order | Color(s) of samples plotted                                                                                                                         |
+=====+===========+=============+==========+===============+===============+=============+=====================================================================================================================================================+
| 1.  | |None|    | |None|      | |None|   | |None|        | |one|         |             | All samples as one color, |autoassigned|                                                                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2.  | |None|    | |None|      | |None|   | |hue_order|   | |n_index|     |             | Every sample a different color, auto-assigned via ``sns.light_palette`` from the next color cycle, ordered by the row order of the input data       |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 3.  | |None|    | |None|      | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Color by group mapping specified in ``hue`` with |autoassigned| colors                                                                              |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.  | |None|    | |None|      | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Color by group mapping specified in ``hue`` with |autoassigned| colors, in order specified by ``hue_order``                                         |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 5.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |None|   | |None|        | |n_index|     | |rows|      | Every sample a different color, auto-assigned from ``palette`` by the row order of the input data                                                   |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 6.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |None|   | |hue_order|   | |n_index|     | |order|     | If ``len(hue_order)==data.shape[0]``, then every sample a different color, in order specified by ``hue_order``. Otherwise raises ``ValueError``     |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 7.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Group by samples with ``hue`` and color with this ``palette``                                                                                       |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 8.  | |None|    | |palette|   | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Group by samples with ``hue`` with this ``palette``, in order specified by ``hue_order``                                                            |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 9.  | |color|   | |None|      | |None|   | |None|        | |one|         |             | All samples as one color from ``color``                                                                                                             |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 10. | |color|   | |None|      | |None|   | |hue_order|   | |n_index|     |             | Every sample a different color created by a ``sns.light_palette`` derived from ``color``, ordered by the row order of the input data                |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 11. | |color|   | |None|      | |hue|    | |None|        | |n_hue|       | |alpha|     | Plot groups of samples defined by ``hue`` with colors created a ``sns.light_palette()`` derived from ``color``                                      |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 12. | |color|   | |None|      | |hue|    | |hue_order|   | |n_hue_order| | |order|     | Plot groups of samples defined by ``hue`` with colors created a ``sns.light_palette()`` derived from ``color``, in order specified by ``hue_order`` |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 13. | |color|   | |palette|   | |None|   | |None|        |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 14. | |color|   | |palette|   | |None|   | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 15. | |color|   | |palette|   | |hue|    | |None|        |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 16. | |color|   | |palette|   | |hue|    | |hue_order|   |               |             | |ValueError|                                                                                                                                        |
+-----+-----------+-------------+----------+---------------+---------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Note:

|autoassigned| colors come either from ``ax.color_cycle()`` or "husl" palette if not enough colors.

.. Argument replacements
.. |None| replace:: ``None``
.. |color| replace:: Valid `matplotlib color`_ (e.g. ``"DarkTeal"`` or ``"#4B0082"``)
.. |palette| replace:: Valid matplotlib_ (e.g. ``"PRGn"``) or seaborn_ (e.g. ``"husl"``) palette name or list of colors
.. |hue| replace:: Sample id (row name) to group mapping object (``pandas.Series`` or ``dict``)
.. |hue_order| replace:: ``list`` object

.. Output replacements
.. |ValueError| replace:: Cannot interpret, raises ``ValueError``
.. |autoassigned| replace:: **auto-assigned**

.. Number of colors replacements
.. |n_hue| replace:: Number of groups in `hue`
.. |n_hue_order| replace:: Number of groups in `hue_order`
.. |n_index| replace:: Number of samples (rows)
.. |one| replace:: One (1)

.. Group ordering replacements
.. |alpha| replace:: Alphanumeric
.. |order| replace:: In order defined by ``hue_order``
.. |rows| replace:: In original row order of the data

.. External Links
.. _matplotlib: http://matplotlib.org/examples/color/colormaps_reference.html
.. _seaborn: https://stanford.edu/~mwaskom/software/seaborn/tutorial/color_palettes.html
.. _matplotlib color: http://matplotlib.org/examples/color/named_colors.html
